3D Multiphysics Simulation of Control Drum Inadvertent Rotation in HP-MR (#582)
idaholab/virtual_test_bed: doc/content/microreactors/mrad/control_drum_rotation.md

# 3D Multiphysics Simulation of Control Drum Inadvertent Rotation in HP-MR

*Contact: Ahmed Amin Abdelhameed (aabdelhameed.at.anl.gov), Yinbin Miao (ymiao.at.anl.gov) ), Nicolas Stauff (nstauff.at.anl.gov)*

*Model link: [HPMR Model](https://github.com/idaholab/virtual_test_bed/tree/devel/microreactors/mrad/3D_core_drum_rotation)*

## Overview

> In microreactors, modeling events involving rotating control drums can present challenges due to mesh deformation, localized power peaking, and complex multiphysics feedback. These effects must be accurately captured through high-fidelity, three-dimensional multiphysics simulations.

Author: They may use PKE or lower fidelity models, but they will still need to benchmark it against higher fidelity models.

!media media/mrad/mesh_hpmr_drum.png
       style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:90%;
       id=hpmr_mesh_used
       caption=HP-MR mesh used in the analysis.
	      

### Reflector and 3D Core Construction

The radial reflector was modeled with the `PeripheralRingMeshGenerator` to generate the outer shield region. A dummy fuel assembly was temporarily added to complete the hexagonal core pattern and later removed using the `BlockDeletionGenerator`.
Assemblies (including those with control drums) were patterned with the `PatternedHexMeshGenerator`. A 1/6 symmetry model of the HP-MR core was created by trimming the full hexagonal core using the `PlaneDeletionGenerator`.The resulting 2D mesh was extruded into 3D using the `AdvancedExtruderGenerator`, with axial layers defined via the `subdomain_swaps` parameter.

## Griffin Neutronics Simulation

### Multi-Group Cross Sections

> Multi-group cross sections with 11 energy groups were generated using the **Serpent 2 Monte Carlo code**, based on a parametric grid defined by **Control drum rotation angle** (4 points), **Fuel temperature** (5 points), and **Temperature of moderator, reflector, monolith, and heat pipe** (4 points) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multi-group cross sections with 11 energy groups were generated using the **Serpent 2 Monte Carlo code**, based on a parametric grid defined by **Control drum rotation angle** (4 values), **Fuel temperature** (5 values), and **Temperature of moderator, reflector, monolith, and heat pipe** (4 values), for a total of 80 simulations.
```

Reviewer: do we know how converged we are with that?
I remember Brendan Kochunas asking about this at the NEAMS review

!listing /mrad/3D_core_drum_rotation/HPMR_dfem_griffin_tr.i max-height = 10000

### Mesh Split 

A split-mesh workflow in Griffin entails first generating the appropriate mesh split configuration before running simulations with MOOSE. This process is guided by the Mesh block in Griffin’s input files. If a presplit mesh is not already available, the user must first generate it by uncommenting all mesh blocks, using the Exodus mesh file in the fmg block, and commenting out the parallel_type = distributed. Then, the MOOSE executable is used to perform the mesh splitting. Once the presplit mesh is generated, the user switches to simulation mode by commenting all mesh blocks except the fmg block, replacing the Exodus file with the split .cpr file, and uncommenting the parallel_type = distributed line to enable distributed processing during simulation.

> ### Mesh Configuration and Element ID Assignment

Reviewer: reminder

> ### Mesh Configuration and Element ID Assignment

Reviewer 2: I think this is for Griffin to assign XS. @aabdelhameedd Please confirm.

!listing /mrad/3D_core_drum_rotation/HPMR_thermo_tr.i max-height = 10000

!listing /mrad/3D_core_drum_rotation/HPMR_sockeye_tr.i max-height = 10000

## Neutronic Results 

Before proceeding to the full multiphysics analysis, it is beneficial to first examine the neutronics-only results to establish a baseline for comparison. In this study, a dynamic simulation was performed on a 1/6 core model, where the middle control drum (the one not intersected by any symmetry lines) was rotated, while the other two drums remained stationary. Due to the 1/6 core symmetry, rotating this single drum represents the synchronized rotation of all six control drums in the full core. Reflective boundary conditions were applied along the symmetry planes, and vacuum boundary conditions were imposed on the top, bottom, and outer radial surfaces. At the start of the simulation, the rotating drum was inserted by 35 degrees, while the two stationary drums remained in the fully withdrawn position throughout the simulation.

> The neutronics-only transient simulations were carried out by disabling the MultiApps and Transfers blocks, as well as any postprocessors related to heat transfer. The initial condition for the transient run was obtained from a previously computed steady-state solution. This steady-state solution is saved to a file and then imported into the transient simulation using the TransportSolutionVectorFile parameter. To generate the steady-state solution file, appropriate UserObjects are added to the steady-state input file, with execute_on = final to ensure the solution is captured at the end of the simulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The neutronics-only transient simulations were carried out by disabling the `[MultiApps]` and `[Transfers]` blocks, as well as any postprocessors related to heat transfer. The initial condition for the transient run was obtained from a previously computed steady-state solution. This steady-state solution is saved to a file and then imported into the transient simulation using the `TransportSolutionVectorFile` user object. To generate the steady-state solution file, appropriate `UserObjects` are added to the steady-state input file, with execute_on = final to ensure the solution is captured at the end of the simulation.
```
